[Go] New Concept Exercise: maps WIP (#1351)
exercism/v3: languages/go/exercises/concept/using-map/.docs/after.md

> `map` in go is a key-value type. In other programming language, you might know map as `dict` or associative array. The value of an uninitialized map is `nil`, and you can define map as follows

Author: Very nice stated, I love it

> `make(map[string]int)`

Reviewer: on @ErikSchierboom  suggestion: I like it. Just use a Go conform variable name e.g. `emptyMap`. Also it needs a `:=` for the creation of a variable.

I'd probably also mention the the following way of creating maps as I think that is the most used way (I could be wrong):
```go
emptyMap := map[string]int{}
```

or

```go

>   var foo map[string]int
>   foo = make(map[string]int)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Define a map with string keys and int values
emptyMap := make(map[string]int)
// or
emptyMap := map[string]int{}
```

```

> Here `string` represent the key type of map, and `int` represent the element type of map. You can change them to whatever valid golang type.

To store a value in a map, you can use `=` operator like

`foo["bar"] = 42`

> `map` is indexed by its key, therefore, you are required to use different key if you want to store a different data.

Reviewer: Don't really mind the statement. In case we keep it I suggest:
```suggestion
A `map` is indexed by its key, therefore, you are required to use a different key if you don't want to overwrite existing data.
```

> `map` is indexed by its key, therefore, you are required to use different key if you want to store a different data.

Reviewer 2: Sure. Whatever works best for Go.

To get value from a map, you can use

> `foo["bar"]`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```go
value := foo["bar"]
```
```

> Retrieving inexistent key from map will cause a runtime error, and to check if such a key exists you can do

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Retrieving a value using a non-existent key will result in a runtime error. One can use the optional second return value to check if the key did exist:
```

Reviewer: This is statement is actually false and should be:
```suggestion
Retrieving a value using a non-existent key will return the zero value for the values type. It will not error as you are used to from many other languages. To check if the key did exist, one can use the optional second return value:
```

Reviewer: This link could be added here: https://golang.org/ref/spec#The_zero_value

Reviewer 2: I like the suggestion!

> `value, exists := foo["baz"]`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```go
value, exists := foo["baz"]
```

> To delete an item from a map, you can use

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To delete an item from a map, you can use:
```

> `delete(foo, "bar")`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```go
delete(foo, "bar")
```

Reviewer: Maybe mention, that deleting will not fail if the key did not exist.

> If you try to write to a `map` from multiple go routine, that trigger the race detector, [see this link][godoc-race-detector] and [here][goblog-race-detector]. Alternatively, you can use `sync.Map` or `atomic` or `mutex` to work around this issue.

Reviewer 2: This is a great bit of information to add to the after document!

```suggestion
If you try to write to a `map` from multiple goroutines, that trigger the race detector, [see this link][godoc-race-detector] and [here][goblog-race-detector]. Alternatively, you can use `sync.Map` or `atomic` or `mutex` to work around this issue.
```

Reviewer: Yes definitely very important information!

Not sure if it is too much for this document, but sync.Map is not meant as a replacement for maps + mutex. sync.Map is good when reading a lot from the map especially in loops but is not very performant when there are many writes. The usual way to use a map in a concurrent environment is with mutexes.

Reviewer 2: Maybe we can dumb it down a bit and state something a bit more generically, like how using maps in concurrent scenarios can be problematic? I would indeed prefer not naming any of the solutions.
